meet Griffin the star of the avian
learning experiment an experiment to
prove that parrots are capable of more
than just parroting Griffin's human
partner in the experiment his dr. Irene
Pepperberg we started to establish a
two-way communication system with a bird
that would allow us then to use that
system to examine his intelligence
through this two-way communication with
Griffin dr. Pepperberg is unlocking the
secrets of the bird brain and showing
just how much a parrot can understand
for the past 12 years Griffin and dr.
Pepperberg have worked together first
Griffin is a little bit cautious a
little bit watchful Griffin is an
academic bird who doesn't mince his
words okay he means what he says
and he says what he means okay paper
that's right good birdie there we go
dr. Pepperberg simplified language uses
the minimum number of words possible so
instead of asking what does this made of
she asks good boy
Griffin can also understand abstract
concepts and even has the ability to use
numbers for his right boy but Griffin
has plenty of competition for the title
of genius parrot his main rival has
flown in from Tennessee to give a
special performance at a top Boston
nursery school would you like to hear
her talk
can you tell everybody your name this is
Einstein now Einstein can you to
everybody hi
that's a nice so can you be more polite
sweetheart it's pretty sweet none before
we start Einstein do you need to clear
your throat Irene has come to see
Einstein firsthand because she's heard
of her impressive vocal abilities now
Einstein just took a trip all around the
world well in Africa there's a lot of
chimpanzees who do chimpanzee how about
a pig what about one that needs to go on
a diet but today was a very special day
for Einstein because it was her birthday
what did you do if you got a peanut
[Music]
even though Einsteins ability to mimic
is impressive
Irene still thinks that Griffin is top
of the class when it comes to
comprehension